---
layout: post
title: "New paper: 'Letting symmetry guide visualization: multidimensional scaling on groups'"
data: 2018-11-19 9:00:00
categories: jekyll update
---

Mark Blumstein and myself have submitted a new paper ["Letting symmetry guide visualization: multidimensional scaling on groups"](MDS_on_groups.pdf). 
Multidimensional scaling is a fundamental algorithm that essentially serves two purposes: (i) visualization of points from an abstract metric space in Euclidean space, (ii) dimensionality reduction. 
It was observed by [Lara Kassab](https://larakassab.weebly.com/) and [Henry Adams](http://www.math.colostate.edu/~adams/) that when one takes n evenly spaced points on the circle, uses the standard 
metric for the distance between points on the circle (based on angle), 
and applies MDS, the resulting output is the Fourier modes. 
They also developed a way to describe MDS in terms of an 
operator on an appropriate dual space.

My co-author [Mark Blumstein](http://www.math.colostate.edu/~blumstei/) came in and showed that when one has a group action on the 
original metric space and the metric is invariant with respect to this action, 
then the MDS operator commutes with the group action. 
The consequence of this is that eigenspaces of the MDS operator, 
which define the embedding into Euclidean space, are representations 
of the group. There is an underlying group action of the order n cyclic on the points on the circle which is why Fourier modes (the character table for the cyclic group) show up when we do MDS. We show that generally in a nice setting, applying MDS is "almost equivalent" to decomposing the dual space representation into irreducible representations of the corresponding group. 

There are a lot of further directions to go with this work. I think that, aside from the groundbreaking work done by Diaconis, and some more recent work by Kondor, representation theory has been under-utilized in data science. We hope to write some follow-up papers along the lines of this one to tackle specific groups, and eventually tackle actions by compact Lie groups.
