---
layout: post
title: "New paper: Monitoring the shape of weather, soundscapes, and dynamical systems: A new statistic for dimension-driven data analysis on large data sets"
data: 2018-08-20 11:00:00
categories: jekyll update
---

Elin Farnell, Michael Kirby, Chris Peterson, and I just submitted a new paper in our sequence on secant-based dimensionality reduction. Rather than focusing on dimensionality reduction itself, in this paper we look at how the effectiveness of secant-based dimensionality reduction can provide useful statistics about a data set. Specifically, in both the secant-based dimensionality reduction algorithms that we have developed,
one component of the output is the length of the projected normalized secant which is least well preserved by the projection produced by the algorithm.
 We call the projected length of this "worst preserved secant vector" the kappa-value for projection dimension k.
Note that because we assume that all secants have been normalized prior to projection, kappa-values are between 0 and 1. In general, if the "intrinsic" dimension of data is greater than k, then the kappa-value for projection dimension k will be very small (for example, less than .2). 
On the other hand, if the data is of dimension somewhat less than k (how much less depends on the manifold on which the data set sits) then the corresponding kappa-value should be relatively larger (say larger than .2). 

By calculating the kappa-values for a range of dimensions we can construct a kappa-profile of the data. 
In our paper we show how we can use this statistic to better understand large data sets. 
We are particularly interested in using the kappa-profile to monitor large data sets that are changing. For example, we show that changes in kappa-profile (and in fact dimension) for a weather data set my indicate the approach of a major weather event. We also calculate kappa-profiles for soundscapes as well as data collected from the Kuramoto-Sivashinsky equation. 
